The “context” means the origin of data. The person who created the data, his purpose, the specific time point that he created it and other various elements consist of the “context”. In other words, context is about people, about the story behind data. Context is of great significance because the essence of data is to explain and learn more about ourselves – our habits, relations, reactions and so on. However usually, numbers, as the most obvious feature of data, catch too much attention. One example will be a country’s GDP. Sometimes people will relate a high GDP to happiness or a powerful country, which is not the case.  A high GDP cannot guarantee a good life or a harmonious society. People may live under great pressure and have a poor life. However, some officials will argue that numbers cannot cheat, and data is the best reflection of life, which is incoherent to reality. 
If the authors have a conversation, they will probably disagree with each other with regard to how to interpret data. When talking about data, Boyd and Craford stress more on its limitations. The scale is limited, the technology limits how people interpret data, and there are mistakes like apophenia that people tend to make. Data is not only about what people can see, but also about what people cannot see which is hidden or missing in the data. When it comes to Data Humanism, the author focuses more on how to interpret a complex data via various ways. In this case, how to visualize and make the graph readable are highly emphasized. Though the author also stresses the importance of context and the role of people, he barely mentions factors which are not data but are highly related to data. This will result in more biases in interpretations. Therefore, data is not only about itself, but also about all the elements around it. The person who creates the data can be considered as “context”, so do people who can possess, analyze and interpret it, and any other factors that relate to it. 
