The podcast “Right to be Forgotten” makes me think about the topic of Internet memory. The problem has two aspects – do people have the right to be forgotten? And if so, who can delete their Internet memory? And for those who want to be forgotten, what is their motivation, and does every individual have this right? In the past, people use archives to record citizens’ big events and distinct behavior. The forgetting process happens due to the nature of human memory. However, in the digital era, every tiny incident is put on the Internet and recorded forever. The forgetting process is to deliberately delete a certain part of memory. 

The challenge of this plan is that it is hard to define whether intentionally deleting a certain record will do no harm just like the natural forgetting process. The podcast mentions that someone kills a person for self-defense and asks for deleting the record. For me, such a record cannot be deleted since it is a serious incident, and his employer has the right to know about his past. Then here comes another difficulty – who has the right to check others’ records? Nowadays people want to be forgotten partially because as long as another google name, they can get various information about that person. Everyone has access to others’ past. Under such circumstances, can we make some improvements to the search engines?

As for the ClearView system, it is highly similar to China’s big data and facial recognition system. Both of them need supervision. Indeed, such a system will greatly help the police detect the potential criminal, but the public is still unclear who owns the technology. Will the owners make use of these data for other purposes? Currently, my suggestion is that the government needs to release the information of these tech companies. Every call of these data, apart from some special confidential tasks like detecting criminals, needs to be released. In this case, the system will be more transparent and people will be aware that how their information is used.
