Surveillance capitalism can be considered as the process that the people who possess the knowledge and technology exert their power over their “users.” It seems that the big tech companies deem their “users” as a group who share similar interests, and because of the emergency to make the company survive, they use the behavioral data from the users to make behavioral predictions. However, the users are also the people who are concerned about political, ethical, economic problems. The companies tend to keep the users ignorant by giving them complicated protocols and then legally force the users to give out their data and they become the biggest beneficiary.
I resonate with Zuboff’s opinion that people have the right to be “forgotten.” Sayings like “if you’ve nothing to hide you shouldn’t worry about government surveillance” is indeed a moral abduction from my perspective. People have nothing to hide does not mean they have to give out everything. It is the person who owns the data that has the right to decide whether he or she will give it or not. There is another point that I really agree with, which is every time the “users'' strive for their rights, they may forget what they want in the end. Then a “new” product appears with few differences from its initial version. But because these big companies are huge monopolies, people have no choice but to continue using their products.
The phenomenon mentioned above makes me wonder how we can awaken more people and change such situations. I do agree that democracy is significant, but does it really work? Under the premise that the companies try to keep the users ignorant by giving unreadable protocols, which is indeed the only case that they tell the truth, and users have to “read and agree” the protocols so that they can use the product, how can people fight against such unevenness?
