First, some music platforms like NetEase Cloud have a “daily recommendation” function. It will recommend songs based on the users’ preferences, and once they “like” or “download” the recommend song, the algorithm will be improved automatically. Therefore, the recommended songs will be more accurate every day. Second, when people use google doc or Gmail, sometimes they type several letters and then the platform will automatically give people the full sentence. The only thing left for people to do is to press “tab”. Third, there are some map apps that can monitor and also predict the traffic condition. They will also provide people with different ways to their destination, so that people can choose a best way based on the time, transportation and distance.

From my perspective, big data is effective especially when it comes to explaining a certain social phenomenon. Also, it may be effective for “Precrime” to prevent illegal behavior. However, nowadays big data is easier to access, and it can be associated with any phenomenon. To be more specific, sometimes two factors are not related, but the algorithm rigidly tries to figure out some connections to make so-called predictions. In addition, more and more people are represented by hard data, whereas it lacks ample explanations. Every data is produced based on different motivations, via different means, but some analysts focus much more on the numbers and forget to include enough explanations to illustrate these numbers. Therefore, my opinion in utilizing big data is that before the experiment, researchers need to be clear about their goal of collecting the data. Also, they need to be conscious about the limitations when collecting, analyzing and releasing it. With the acknowledgement of limitations, the outcome will be fairly more neutral (though even data itself is never neutral). Lastly, big data may be useful for predicting or explaining social phenomenon, but it is not applicable to predict a single person (the coin experiment).
